"One week after Election Day, almost all U.S. states have tallied and reported enough ballots necessary to call their respective races. Joe Biden maintained his lead over President Donald Trump on Tuesday morning, having secured roughly 5 million more votes than the incumbent Republican candidate, according to the Associated Press. Still, the outcomes of individual races in three states have not yet been determined, as Georgia prepares for a mandatory recount and deadlines to receive absentee ballots in Alaska and North Carolina remain ahead.

Local election officials continued to tabulate votes into the weekend, with results prompting major news outlets to declare Biden and California Senator Kamala Harris the projected winners for president and vice president. The AP announced the Democratic ticket's anticipated victory on Saturday, when it called Pennsylvania's race for Biden. His win in the critical battleground state gave Biden 20 electoral votes, pushing him past the required 270-vote minimum nationwide.

Trump declared himself the presidential election's winner soon after polls closed last Tuesday and continued to insist the same during subsequent public addresses, falsely claiming that Democratic corruption and ""illegal"" ballots tabulated in key swing states that voted Biden were responsible for his opponent's projected triumph. His campaign filed a number of lawsuits alleging that elections officials in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and elsewhere conducted tabulation procedures improperly. Many pointed to the legal proceedings' lack of merit, and several judges went on to dismiss claims soon after their filings.

Kamala Harris, Joe Biden
Alongside Vice President-elect Kamala Harris, President-elect Joe Biden addresses reporters during a briefing in Wilmington, Delaware, on November 9. After calling Pennsylvania's race for Biden, major news outlets declared him the presidential election's projected winner on Saturday.

Trump requested a recount in Georgia, where state law permits the losing party to do so if ballot counts indicate their opponent won by a margin of less than 0.5 percent. Given the state's tight race this year—Tuesday's tally showed Biden ahead by about 12,000 votes, or 0.2 percent—Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger said Georgia would implement a recount in comments to reporters last Friday. Georgia was one of several states where initial ballot tallies gave Trump an early lead, which diminished steadily as mail-in votes continued to be collected and counted throughout the week.

The president and his campaign accused Georgia of tabulating illegitimate ballots in a lawsuit filed after Election Day. A judge later dismissed the suit, but the state's Republican senators still backed Trump's claims and subsequently called for Raffensperger's resignation Monday. The secretary of state said ""that is not going to happen"" and noted the outcome of Georgia's election is ""unlikely"" to change after investigations into alleged unlawful voting, and the state's ballot recount, are complete. Trump's campaign has demanded the state conduct its recount by hand rather than machine."
