"Fox News' Tucker Carlson has conceded that allegations of fraud which he suggested can be confirmed might not alter the election outcome—though insisted that is not the sole reason to pursue them.

The Fox News host has rallied behind calls to pursue suggestions of foul play in the election, with President Donald Trump and his team launching lawsuits linked to such accusations in several states.

It comes with networks having called the election in Democrat Joe Biden's favor, determining him to have won the Electoral College majority and therefore the presidency—though Trump and his allies have pushed against this.

Carlson, however, has suggested that while he believes suggestions of wrongdoing and fraud be investigated those which could stand up to scrutiny still might not be enough to alter the outcome.

""At this stage, the fraud that we can confirm does not seem to be enough to alter the election result. We should be honest and tell you that. Of course, that could change,"" he said, on his Fox News show Tucker Carlson Tonight.

""But changing the election results is not the whole point. The real point is that fraud took place, and that should horrify us. If you want people to believe that our system is real, that our system is worth say joining the military and dying to protect, then you've got to get to the bottom of what just happened and you've got to do it as quickly and responsibly as you can. You can't have fraud in an election because then no one will believe in elections and then things fall apart.""

He added: ""The point isn't that we need to keep investigating until Donald Trump wins, that is not the point. The point is we need to find out what happened so that the rest of us believe the system is real. And to make that happen, Congress ought to investigate every meaningful claim of illegal voting. Every legitimate claim that is raised must be investigated.


""We need facts. Transparency is the key.""

Carlson spoke of ""all the questions"" being answered before he would accept the election result, speaking of voters suspecting the election was ""stolen from them.""

""You cannot ignore honest questions from citizens,"" he said.

""We need to find out exactly what happened in this election.""

He referred to affidavits which ""attest to criminal activity during the voting process"" and allegations of ballots being improperly backdated and other accusations of voter fraud.

Carlson also referred to comments from Gabriel Sterling, voting system implementation manager for Georgia, who said ""we are going to find that people did illegally vote""—though saying he did not think this number would be more than what Biden's lead is in Georgia.

Carlson's comments come amid Trump's refusal to concede the election, despite networks having called the result in Biden's favor, as he pursues lawsuits in several states taking issue with the counts.

Graham Wants Mail-In Vote 'Oversight' As McConnell Defends Trump LawsuitsREAD MORE
Trump, who has claimed without evidence there has been a Democratic plot to steal the election, tweeted Sunday: ""Since when does the Lamestream Media call who our next president will be?""

It comes with Attorney General William Barr having authorized federal prosecutors to investigate allegations of voting irregularities, suggesting such instances could ""if true, could potentially impact the outcome of a federal election in an individual State,"" according to a memo obtained by the Associated Press.

Newsweek has contacted Carlson and the Trump campaign for comment."
