Voters Don't Believe Trump's Fraud Claims—Or That Most GOP Lawmakers Do

While President Donald Trump continues to rally against alleged fraud and irregularities he suggests tipped election results in Joe Biden's favor, polling indicates most voters do not believe his claims nor do they think GOP lawmakers do.

Trump has persisted, despite not highlighting clear evidence for his claims, that the result is swayed against him due to "illegal votes"—and that based upon ballots he deems to be legal, he would be victorious.

Network calls have determined Biden the victor, though Trump has questioned what he brands the "lamestream media" determining the outcome—while mounting election-related lawsuits in several states.


However, despite Trump's persistence in sticking to the stance that the election has somehAow been stolen from him—the public does not appear to be convinced.

More than half of 1,283 registered voters asked by YouGov on November 7 said they believed voter fraud either had not taken place or it has but not in a widespread enough manner to impact the election result.


Respondents were asked: ""Do you believe that voter fraud and/or vote rigging has or has not taken place at this presidential election?""

The most common answer to this was ""it has not taken place,"" with 42 percent of those asked opting for this option.



Another 15 percent said they believe it has taken place, ""but is not widespread enough to affect the outcome.""

Just more than a third, 36 percent, said they believe it has taken place and ""to a large enough extent that it has affected the outcome.""

In addition to this, separate polling also showed people do not think the majority of GOP lawmakers believe Trump's claims either.

YouGov asked 21,161 U.S. adults on November 9: ""Do you think the majority of politicians in the Republican Party do or do not believe Donald Trump's claims about voter fraud and vote rigging?""

The most common answer, selected by 45 percent of respondents was ""they do not believe him,"" compared to 32 percent opting for ""they do believe him.""


Newsweek has contacted the Trump campaign for comment.

It comes with high-profile Republicans such as Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) having backed Trump's pursuit of legal action over allegations of irregularities.

While Attorney General William Barr has also authorized federal prosecutors to investigate such accusations.


Only a handful of Republican lawmakers have broken rank to acknowledge Biden as the winner, with most either backing the president or dodging the issue."
