"Election Officials in Every Swing State Say There's No Evidence of Voter Fraud

Election officials in 49 states, including swing states crucial to the victory of Democratic President-elect Joe Biden, have all publicly stated that they've seen no evidence of widespread voter fraud. Their statements run contrary to the claims of the Republican National Committee (RNC) and President Donald Trump's re-election campaign.

Months before the election, Trump claimed he would only lose if there were widespread fraud or vote-rigging. Trump subsequently lost the election by more than 5 million popular votes and 73 electoral votes.

Biden decisively won due to 273,000 popular votes and 79 electoral votes in six swing states: Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.


Election officials and secretaries of state from those and 43 other states told The New York Times that they neither suspect nor have proof of any widespread voter fraud. The only state not to respond was Texas, where Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick offered citizens $1 million for any evidence of fraud.

Gabriel Sterling, voting implementation manager in the Georgia Secretary of State's office, disavowed any claims of fraud to the Times. Jake Rollow, spokesman for Michigan's Democratic Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, told the publication, ""We have not seen any evidence of fraud or foul play in the actual administration of the election.""

Jacklin Rhoads, spokeswoman for Pennsylvania's Democratic Attorney General Josh Shapiro, said, ""No active lawsuit even alleges, and no evidence presented so far has shown, widespread problems.""


Newsweek contacted the Trump campaign for comment.

election officials no evidence voter fraud Republicans
Elections officials in 49 U.S. states have said that they've seen no evidence of widespread voter fraud, despite claims being made by the Republican party. In this November 4, 2020 photo, specialists at the Mecklenburg County Board of Elections office in Charlotte, North Carolina fill a room with counted ballots.
MICHAEL CIAGLO/GETTY

Nevertheless, Trump's re-election campaign has filed lawsuits in several states alleging that thousands of votes were fraudulently included in final vote counts and should be thrown out. The legal challenges seek resolution before each state certifies its election results in December. Trump and other Republicans have said that when only legal votes are counted, Trump will have won.

On Tuesday night, Ronna McDaniel, Chair of the Republican National Committee (RNC), told FOX News commentator Sean Hannity that she has 234 pages containing 500 sworn affidavits alleging 11,000 incidents of various types of voter fraud.

Early on Tuesday, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that Trump had won a second presidential term despite having no evidence to substantiate his claim. John Bolton, Trump's former National Security Advisor, called Pompeo ""delusional.""

On Monday, Attorney General William Barr allowed federal prosecutors to investigate any claims of voter fraud. Democratic congressional leaders criticized his decision as unfounded and corrupt.


Former Republican elected officials such as former President George W. Bush, former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and former congressman Rick Santorum have all congratulated President-elect Biden for his victory over Trump.

In a Tuesday press briefing, Republican Maryland Governor Larry Hogan said, ""I think most people realize that this election is over,"" and added that it's time for the country to ""move on."""
