"A new page for America': Hillary Clinton, Kim Kardashian West, celebs react to Joe Biden's win

After three days of anticipating 2020 election results, the United States has a president-elect: Joe Biden. Celebrities eagerly stormed Twitter to share their reactions to the long-awaited news. 

On Saturday, Biden pulled ahead to receive the necessary 270 Electoral College votes and defeated President Donald Trump to become the 46th president of the United States. His victory came after more than three days of uncertainty as election officials sorted through a surge of mail-in votes that delayed the processing of some ballots.

Former Secretary of State and 2016 presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton thanked ""everyone who helped make this happen.""

""The voters have spoken, and they have chosen @JoeBiden and @KamalaHarris to be our next president and vice president. It's a history-making ticket, a repudiation of Trump, and a new page for America,"" Clinton tweeted. ""Onward, together.""

Ariana Grande was ""crying,"" she tweeted and wrote: ""Thank God.""

Kim Kardashian West, whose husband, Kanye West, was also running for president, tweeted a photo of Biden and Harris and added three blue heart emojis. The reality TV star shared Tuesday that she voted but didn't go into detail about whom she cast her ballot for.

Kerry Washington expressed her gratitude for those who turned out and voted.


""The people have spoken! Thank you to everyone who used your vote and your voice to make history,"" she tweeted alongside a photo of Harris and Biden. ""PRESIDENT Joe Biden and VICE PRESIDENT Kamala Harris.""

Lady Gaga, who has been campaigning for Biden and urging people to vote, tweeted about her elation at the win.

""@JoeBiden @KamalaHarris and the American people, you just gave the world one of the greatest acts of kindness and bravery humanity has ever seen,"" the ""Chromatica"" artist wrote. ""Nothing but love for our new Commander in Chief and the 1ST female VP elected to the White House. Also, way to go PA.""

Viola Davis echoed what many Biden supporters were thinking: ""Woooooohooooo!!!!!!""

""PHILLY!!!!! AMERICA!!!!!! BLACK FOLK!!!! BLACK PEOPLE!!!!!!!! GOD BLESS YOU!!!!!!! Now....let’s fight for that Senate!!!!!!!"" Davis tweeted giving a nod to the city of Philadelphia, which helped propel Biden to win in Pennsylvania. 

Julia Louis-Dreyfus, who played a fictional U.S. vice president in ""Veep,"" wrote: ""Democracy endures. Congratulations to our President-Elect @JoeBiden and our first female Vice-President-Elect @KamalaHarris. Mr. President-Elect, enjoy your ice cream today. Would you like some cake to go with it?""

Dreyfus added: "" 'Madam Vice President' is no longer a fictional character.""

Chrissy Teigen shared a video of her and husband John Legend dancing to rapper YG's song ""FDT."" Teigen also posted a photo of her two kids seated in front of a television with the election results on the screen and captioned it ""democracy restored, faith renewed.""


Mark Ruffalo's Twitter timeline was filled with congratulatory retweets for Biden and Harris' win as well as his own messages thanking everyone who made this moment happen.

""Good work everyone! We worked very hard for this. We lost so many beautiful people and we must celebrate for them and move forward henceforth in a good way,"" Ruffalo wrote. ""Lots of history for immigrants who came to this country today. @DrBiden will be the first Italian-American living in the White House. Dreamers get ready!""


Lizzo shared an emotional four-minute video to Instagram expressing how the few times she's been hopeful, the hope gets taken away from her. 

""This time I was hopeful and I was scared. I think Trump is out of office, officially. ... I think this is the end of that four year term that felt like a thousand years where people lost their lives, their livelihoods, this country fell into a pandemic, a recession,"" Lizzo said. ""Whether you're blue or red, that man didn't care about you. And I'm so excited to see a Black woman in the White House.""


Demi Lovato also shared pictures of herself with Biden and Harris, respectively, noting she'd been waiting to post them.

""Our 46th president, @joebiden!,"" Lovato wrote. ""I’ve been waiting to post this photo because I knew deep down you would be our next President. Today we celebrate the millions of Americans who overcame barriers to the ballot box, mobilized their communities & voted in record breaking numbers.""

 Mandy Moore acknowledged there is still work to be done but encouraged people to celebrate this moment.

""In tears. What a moment! So grateful to all voters, poll workers, volunteers, staffers, everyone who made this a reality!"" Moore tweeted. ""No doubt there is a LOT of work to do but let’s celebrate this moment, friends. It’s historic!""

Sarah Paulson shared a poem by Seamus Heaney to illustrate how she felt about Biden and Harris' win.

Ava Duvernay, who directed Netflix's ""When They See Us,"" which follows a group of black and Hispanic teenagers who were convicted (and later exonerated) in connection with the 1989 rape of jogger Trisha Meili, a 28-year-old white investment banker, reflected on what Trump's defeat meant for the group, referred to as the Central Park Five. 

At the time of the assault, Trump was a high-powered New York real estate mogul and despite no DNA evidence connecting the boys to the attack, the former president spent $85,000 on full-page ads in four city newspapers, calling for their executions. 

""Imagine the person who took out full-page ads to call for your execution being voted in as President of the United States,"" she tweeted alongside the hashtag #exonerated5. ""Now, imagine that person being fired in shame. Sending my love to Korey, Antron, Raymond, Kevin and Yusef. Enjoy this day, my brothers.""

Tracee Ellis Ross took to Instagram and shared a video of Harris celebrating the news with Biden on the phone, writing: ""Let’s go! Let the healing begin!!""


Maria Shriver expressed her belief in Biden's ability to set a ""new tone"" for the country.

""I believe @JoeBiden will work to unite the country. He will put our country over party. That will be good for all of us,"" Shriver tweeted. ""Today begins a new phase. A new tone, a new dawn. May we all take a deep breathe and exhale. And accept reality. #PresidentElectJoe.""

Daniel Dae Kim wrote: ""Finally breathing. And now, to quote the great Tony Kushner, 'The great work begins.' ""

Aside from joyous reactions to Biden's win, stars also celebrated Harris being the first African American and South Asian-American woman to be elected vice president.

Reese Witherspoon wrote: ""What a tremendous moment in our nation’s history ! Congrats to our new President @JoeBiden and the First Female Vice President in our history.""

Niecy Nash shared a smiling photo of Harris and simply wrote: ""Madam Vice President @KamalaHarris"" with three hand-clapping emojis.

Katie Cassidy shared her excitement over Biden and Harris' wins.

""MR. PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN!!!!!!!!,"" tweeted Cassidy. ""Also... THE FIRST FEMALE BLACK VP!!! The best news I've heard all year!!!! Let this show that being a good person will ALWAYS win. Love will always win.""

""American Pickle"" actor Kalen Allen celebrated Harris' historic win and what it means for Black women.

""Black women have carried this nation on its back since its creation! “This is for colored girls who have considered suicide, but are movin to the ends of their own rainbows! I present to you the Vice-President Elect Madame @kamalaharris,"" Allen wrote.

"
