"This AIN’T over!' Vice President Mike Pence exhorts Trump campaign to continue challenging election result

WASHINGTON – Vice President Mike Pence tweeted Monday that he is firmly behind efforts to keep counting “legal” votes as the Trump campaign tries to find a way to undo Joe Biden’s victory, which has been declared by media networks and recognized by a growing number of prominent Republicans.

“Told @VP Team Today: ‘it ain’t over til it’s over .. and this AIN’T over!’ President @realDonaldTrump has never stopped fighting for us and we’re gonna Keep Fighting until every LEGAL vote is counted,” the vice president wrote in a tweet.

It's the first public statement Pence has made since Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 election Saturday.

Vice President Mike Pence gives a speech on July 17, 2020, at Ripon College in Ripon, Wis.
President Donald Trump and his legal team continue to make the unsubstantiated claim that several states – notably Pennsylvania – have counted ballots they shouldn’t have and prematurely awarded Biden the victory he needed to win the White House.

Trump campaign lawyers and their GOP allies are challenging the vote of several key states, including Georgia, Nevada and Michigan, that narrowly went for Biden.

In Pennsylvania: On Monday evening, the Trump campaign filed a federal suit in Pennsylvania alleging voters were treated differently depending on whether they voted by mail or in person, creating an unconstitutional, “two tiered” system. The Trump campaign, the Republican Party of Pennsylvania and others have also filed a flurry of lawsuits and legal briefs about the controversial three-day extension for voters to return mail ballots, the rights of people to observe ballot counting, and the process for “curing” ballots when mistakes are made.


In Arizona: The Trump campaign has sued in Maricopa County, alleging Arizona voters were given Sharpie pens to mark selections, and when vote tabulation machines flagged some ballots as defective, poll workers improperly overrode the machines. State election officials have denied that ballots were tabulated improperly.

In Georgia: The campaign continues to highlight voting irregularities and the president's claims of fraud. Both the campaign and the president have not provided any proof to back their unsubstantiated claims. And Brad Raffensperger, the state's Republican secretary of State, has rejected claims of widespread fraud in the state’s elections.

In Michigan: A state judge threw out a Trump campaign lawsuit last week seeking an order that the Secretary of State provide “meaningful access” for observers to watch ballot counting and allow it to view videotaped surveillance of ballot drop boxes. The Trump campaign is appealing.

In Nevada: Republicans have brought cases in state and federal court alleging problems with software used to match signatures on mail ballots, but judges declined to stop vote counting. 

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell defending the president's right to pursue legal remedies.

""President Trump is 100% within his rights to look into allegations of irregularities and weigh his legal options,"" the Kentucky Republican said on the Senate floor Monday. ""If any major irregularities occurred this time of a magnitude that would affect the outcome, then every single American should want them to be brought to light. And if the Democrats feel confident they have not occurred, they should have no reason to fear any extra scrutiny.”

While McConnell backed Trump's legal efforts, he did not echo the president's baseless claims about voter fraud and Democrats breaking the law to steal the election from him.

Even as Trump continues to allege voter fraud without providing evidence, prominent Republicans – including former President George W. Bush – have begun congratulating Biden on his victory.

""I just talked to the President-elect of the United States, Joe Biden,"" Bush, a Republican, said in a statement Sunday. ""I extended my warm congratulations and thanked him for the patriotic message he delivered last night."""
