"Fox News, CNN, MSNBC, AP Call Presidential Election for Joe Biden

Corporate media outlets called the presidential election for former Vice President Joe Biden and his running mate, Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA).

CNN, MSNBC, and the Associated Press called the election for Biden at 11:28 a.m., just minutes before President Trump’s lawyers were expected to speak at a press conference about challenging votes in Pennsylvania.


Fox News ultimately followed suit at 11:40 a.m.

At the time of the decision, President Trump spent Saturday morning at his golf course in Sterling, Virginia, presumably to play golf on a sunny fall afternoon.

The president issued the following statement via his campaign:

We all know why Joe Biden is rushing to falsely pose as the winner, and why his media allies are trying so hard to help him: they don’t want the truth to be exposed. The simple fact is this election is far from over. Joe Biden has not been certified as the winner of any states, let alone any of the highly contested states headed for mandatory recounts, or states where our campaign has valid and legitimate legal challenges that could determine the ultimate victor. In Pennsylvania, for example, our legal observers were not permitted meaningful access to watch the counting process.  Legal votes decide who is president, not the news media.

Beginning Monday, our campaign will start prosecuting our case in court to ensure election laws are fully upheld and the rightful winner is seated. The American People are entitled to an honest election: that means counting all legal ballots, and not counting any illegal ballots. This is the only way to ensure the public has full confidence in our election. It remains shocking that the Biden campaign refuses to agree with this basic principle and wants ballots counted even if they are fraudulent, manufactured, or cast by ineligible or deceased voters. Only a party engaged in wrongdoing would unlawfully keep observers out of the count room – and then fight in court to block their access.

So what is Biden hiding? I will not rest until the American People have the honest vote count they deserve and that Democracy demands. – President Donald J. Trump"
